developers toolbox (#153)
iExecBlockchainComputing/documentation: for-developers/toolbox/iexec-explorer.md

# iExec explorer

The iExec explorer is a high level protocol explorer that allow to quickly browse iExec protocol.

The iExec explorer is available at <https://explorer.iex.ec>.

## Protocol overview

The iExec explorer home page gives a quick overview of the protocol recent activity.

- The latests [Deals](#deal) and [tasks](#task) running on the platform
- The latests [Apps](#app), [Datasets](#dataset) and [Workerpools](#workerpool) deployed

![iExec Explorer](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_home.png)

## Navigation

### Search bar

> The search bar allow to find an object by it's address, ENS or transaction hash.

Author: thanks for typo and suggestion :)
- d6e35ce8b48b04a623f212e9b3ac7b7fa64347c7
- fbeca9656eefb28d212c39f50151589c2c16a6be

![search by address](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_search-by-address.png)

![search by ens](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_search-by-ens.png)

![search by tx hash](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_search-by-tx-hash.png)

### Links

Each item can be clicked to access a [detailed view](#detailed-views) of the corresponding object.

### Block explorer links

For a low level view, an external links to a [block explorer](https://blockscout-bellecour.iex.ec/) is available on [addresses](#address) and transactions.

## Detailed views

> 

Reviewer: Proposal
Tips:  by connecting with Metamask and click on "my activity" button, you can access your personal activity.

> The following object have a detailed view.

Author: outdated replaced by `items`

- [Address](#address)
- [App](#app)
- [Dataset](#dataset)
- [Workerpool](#workerpool)
- [Deal](#deal)
- [Task](#task)
- [Transaction](#transaction)

### Address

This page summaries the interactions of an ethereum address with the protocol.

> Specific role based views (such as [Worker](#worker-view)) are available on this page.

Reviewer: such as requester, dapp provider,...

Author: added 099eab9587c1afcaf9d57cdb76aaf3bbb7ecb0fc

![address details](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_address-details.png)

#### Worker view

The worker view shows the wallet activity as a worker.

The worker's latests contributions on tasks are exposed with their current status.

| Status | Description |
| --- | --- |
| CONTRIBUTED | the worker submitted the computation result on the blockchain but the task is not finalized yet |
| PROVED | the worker contribution was in the consensus when the task was finalized<br/> - the worker has been rewarded |
| REJECTED | the worker contribution was not in the consensus when the task was finalized<br/> - the worker's stake has been seized |

![address details: worker view](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_address-details_worker-view.png)

### App

> This page shows the details of an app and the latests usages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page shows the details of an app and its latest usages.
```

![app details](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_app-details.png)

### Dataset

> This page shows the details of a dataset and the latests usages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page shows the details of a dataset and its latest usages.
```

![dataset details](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_dataset-details.png)

### Workerpool

> This page shows the details of a workerpool and the latests usages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page shows the details of a workerpool and its latest usages.
```

![workerpool details](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_workerpool-details.png)

### Deal

This page shows the details of a deal and the generated computation [tasks](#task).

The `Status` shows a synthetic information of the deal's tasks completion.

| Status | Description |
| --- | --- |
| PENDING | tasks not COMPLETED while the deadline is not reached yet |
| COMPLETED | tasks successfully COMPLETED |
| CLAIMABLE | tasks not finalized before the deadline<br/> - not finalized tasks can be claimed |
| CLAIMED | tasks not finalized before the deadline and claimed as failed |

![deal details](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_deal-details.png)

### Task

> This page shows the details of a task and it's completion status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This page shows the details of a task and its completion status.
```

# iExec explorer

The iExec explorer is a high level protocol explorer that allows to quickly browse iExec protocol.

The iExec explorer is available at <https://explorer.iex.ec>.

## Protocol overview

The iExec explorer home page gives a quick overview of the protocol recent activity.

> - The latests [Deals](#deal) and [tasks](#task) running on the platform
> - The latests [Apps](#app), [Datasets](#dataset) and [Workerpools](#workerpool) deployed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The latest [Deals](#deal) and [Tasks](#task) running on the platform
- The latest [Apps](#app), [Datasets](#dataset) and [Workerpools](#workerpool) deployed
```

![iExec Explorer](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_home.png)

## Login

The **Login** button allows to connect your ethereum wallet to the application.

Connecting your wallet allows to [interact](#actions) with the protocol in the application.

### Account

Once connected with a wallet, the **Account** button allows to open the account modal, from where the user can manage her/his wallet and iExec account.

### My activity

Once connected the **My activity** button allows the user to quickly navigate to her/his wallet [address details](#address) page.

## Navigation

### Search bar

The search bar allows to find an item by it's address, ENS name or transaction hash.

![search by address](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_search-by-address.png)

![search by ens](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_search-by-ens.png)

![search by tx hash](../../.gitbook/assets/explorer_search-by-tx-hash.png)

### Links

Each item can be clicked to access it's [detailed view](#detailed-views).

### Block explorer links

> For a low level view, an external link to a [block explorer](https://blockscout-bellecour.iex.ec/) is available on [addresses](#address) and transactions.

Reviewer 2: Is there a missing link on transactions here ?

Author: :+1: yes this is not consistent thank you, I think the address link is not intended

```suggestion
For a low level view, an external link to a [block explorer](https://blockscout-bellecour.iex.ec/) is available on addresses and transactions.
```

## Detailed views

The following items have a detailed view.

- [Address](#address)
- [App](#app)
- [Dataset](#dataset)
- [Workerpool](#workerpool)
- [Deal](#deal)
- [Task](#task)
- [Transaction](#transaction)

### Address

This page summaries the interactions of an ethereum address with the protocol.

> Specific role based views (such as Requester, [Worker](#worker-view), App developer, Dataset provider, Workerpool manager) are available on this page.

Reviewer 2: Why is there only a link for the Worker here ?

Author: Others views don't have a dedicated section.
I didn't want to document every view as there is not much to say, except for the worker because contribution status is always subject to questions and deserves some more explanations.

Reviewer 2: ok, thanks for the explanation
